Okta 569571 Reference Architecture soft launch (#3930)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/reference/architecture-center/mmod/lab-2-create-resources/index.md

1. Select the `preview` branch in GitHub if necessary.
2. Edit one or more existing `.tf` files in your GitHub repo.
3. Add new resources to the file(s).
4. Commit your changes in GitHub.
5. Verify that the plan runs automatically in your workspace **Overview** page.

In this tutorial, you:

* [Add a new User Schema property resource](#add-a-new-user-schema-property-resource)
* [Add new group and group rules resources](#add-new-group-and-group-rules-resources)
* [Add a new customer application portal resource](#add-a-new-customer-application-portal-resource)
* [Add a new application sign-on policy resource](#add-a-new-application-sign-on-policy-resource)
* [Add a new Authorization Server and custom scopes and claims resources](#add-a-new-authorization-server-and-custom-scopes-and-claims-resources)

> **Note**: For more information about Okta's Terraform providers, resources, and data, see [Okta Provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs).

The workspace configuration that you set up in the previous tutorial causes your plan to be automatically run and changes applied when you check in your changes.

## Add a new User Schema property resource

> Okta's [Universal Directory](https://www.okta.com/products/universal-directory/) allows administrators to define custom User profiles for Okta Users and Applications using a subset of JSON as the schema language used to describe and validate them. The [Okta Schemas API](/docs/reference/api/schemas/) provides operations to manage custom User profiles.

Author: Changed to "Administrators can define custom User profiles in [Universal Directory](https://www.okta.com/products/universal-directory/) using a custom JSON schema."

3. Append the following to `grouprules.tf` in GitHub, then commit your changes.

   ```hcl
   resource "okta_group_rule" "test_rule" {
     name              = "Test Rule"
     status            = "ACTIVE"
     group_assignments = ["${okta_group.test_group.id}"]
     expression_type   = "urn:okta:expression:1.0"
     expression_value  = "String.startsWith(user.firstName,\"somename\")"
   }
   ```

4. In your workspace **Overview** page, observe that a new plan runs, changes are applied automatically, and **Resources changed** shows `+1 ~0 -0` to reflect the added resource. The **Latest Run** status is Applied.

## Add a new customer application portal resource

Okta is a customizable, secure, drop-in solution to add authentication and authorization services to your applications. You can connect any application on any device and define how you want your users to sign in. A customer portal is an interface through which your customers access your application.

Use Customer portal resources to create and configure different portals. They are defined in `modules/applications/customer-portal.tf`.

> In this exercise, you add a new [OIDC application portal](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs/resources/app_oauth) and verify the results in your workspace Overview page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this exercise, you add a new [OpenID Connect (OIDC) application portal](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs/resources/app_oauth) and verify the results on your workspace **Overview** page.
```

1. Append the following to `modules/applications/customer-portal.tf` in GitHub, then commit your changes.

   ```hcl
   resource "okta_app_oauth" "example" {
     status         = "ACTIVE"
     label          = "Example Portal"
     type           = "web"
     redirect_uris  = ["https://localhost:44378/signin-oidc", "https://localhost:44378/Customer", "https://oauth.pstmn.io/v1/callback"]
     post_logout_redirect_uris = ["https://localhost:44378/signout-callback-oidc"]
     login_uri      = "https://localhost:4437811/signin-oidc"
     grant_types    = ["client_credentials", "authorization_code", "refresh_token"]
     response_types = ["code"]
     consent_method = "TRUSTED"
     refresh_token_rotation = "ROTATE"
     skip_users = true
     skip_groups = true
   }
   ```

> 2. In your workspace **Overview** page, observe that a new plan runs, changes are applied automatically, and **Resources changed** shows `+1 ~0 -0` to reflect the added resource. The **Latest Run** status is Applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. On your workspace **Overview** page, observe that a new plan runs, changes are applied automatically, and **Resources changed** shows `+1 ~0 -0` to reflect the added resource. The **Latest Run** status is **Applied**.
```

> ## Add a new application sign-on policy resource

Reviewer: they are called authentication policies now - not application sign-on policies unless you are referencing Classic Engine.

```suggestion
## Add a new authentication policy resource
```

> [Application sign-on policies](/docs/guides/configure-signon-policy/main/) control access to applications. Use them to configure more granular access to the app than are permitted by default, and selectively apply conditions such limiting access to certain users and/or groups, and the network or network zone they are connecting from, to name a few.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Authentication policies](/docs/guides/configure-signon-policy/main/) control access to applications. Use them to configure more granular access to the app than are permitted by default. Additionally, use authentication policies to selectively apply conditions like limiting access to certain users and/or groups, and the network or network zone that they connect from.
```

> An [application sign-on policy resource](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs/resources/app_signon_policy) allows you to create and configure a sign-on policy for the application. Sign-on policies are defined in `modules/applications/app_signon_policies.tf`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An [authentication policy resource](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs/resources/app_signon_policy) allows you to create and configure a sign-on policy for the application. Sign-on policies are defined in `modules/applications/app_signon_policies.tf`.
```

> In this exercise, you add a new application sign-on policy resource, and verify the results in your workspace **Overview** page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this exercise, you add a new authentication policy resource, and verify the results on your workspace **Overview** page.
```

1. Append the following to `modules/applications/app_signon_policies.tf` in GitHub, then commit your changes.

   ```hcl
   resource "okta_app_oauth" "my_app" {
     label                     = "My App"
     type                      = "web"
     grant_types               = ["authorization_code"]
     redirect_uris             = ["http://localhost:3000"]
     post_logout_redirect_uris = ["http://localhost:3000"]
     response_types            = ["code"]
     // this is needed to associate the application with the policy
     authentication_policy     = okta_app_signon_policy.my_app_policy.id
   }

   resource "okta_app_signon_policy" "my_app_policy" {
     name        = "My App Sign-On Policy"
     description = "Authentication Policy to be used on my app."
   }
   ```

> 2. In your workspace **Overview** page, observe that a new plan runs, changes are applied automatically, and **Resources changed** shows `+2 ~0 -0` to show that two resources were added. The **Latest Run** status is Applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. On your workspace **Overview** page, observe that a new plan runs, changes are applied automatically, and **Resources changed** shows `+2 ~0 -0` to show that two resources were added. The **Latest Run** status is **Applied**.
```

> ## Add a new Authorization Server and custom scopes and claims resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add a new authorization server, and custom scopes and claims resources
```

> An [authorization server](/docs/concepts/auth-servers/) is an engine for minting OpenID Connect or OAuth 2.0 tokens, and is also used to apply access policies. Scopes specify which access privileges are being requested as part of an authorization. For example, the email scope requests access to a user's email address. Claims are pieces of information that describe some aspect of a given identity. They are held in authentication tokens; that is, you can think of tokens as envelopes containing claims about users. Custom Okta authorization servers allow you to add custom scopes and claims to tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An [authorization server](/docs/concepts/auth-servers/) is an engine for minting OpenID Connect or OAuth 2.0 tokens, and is also used to apply access policies. Scopes specify which access privileges are requested as part of an authorization. For example, the email scope requests access to a user's email address. Claims are pieces of information that describe some aspect of a given identity. They are held in authentication tokens. That is, you can think of tokens as envelopes that contain claims about users. Custom Okta authorization servers allow you to add custom scopes and claims to tokens.
```

> Use an [Authorization Server resource](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs/resources/auth_server) to create and configure an Authorization Server. Use an [Authorization Server Scope resource](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs/resources/auth_server_scope) to create and configure an Authorization Server Scope, and use an [Authorization Server Claim resource](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs/resources/auth_server_claim) to create and configure an Authorization Server Claim.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use an [Authorization Server resource](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs/resources/auth_server) to create and configure an authorization server. Use an [Authorization Server Scope resource](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs/resources/auth_server_scope) to create and configure an authorization server scope. Use an [Authorization Server Claim resource](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs/resources/auth_server_claim) to create and configure an authorization server claim.
```

> Authorization Server, Authorization Server Scope, and Authorization Server Claim resources are all defined in `modules/auth-servers/customer-portal.tf`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Authorization Server, Authorization Server Scope, and Authorization Server Claim resources are defined in `modules/auth-servers/customer-portal.tf`.
```

> In this example, you add an Authorization Server resource and associated Authorization Server Scope and Authorization Server Claim resources, and verify the results in your workspace **Overview** page. You add the resources separately, in that order, so the new resources are available when you need them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, you add an Authorization Server resource and associated Authorization Server Scope and Authorization Server Claim resources, and verify the results on your workspace **Overview** page. Add the resources separately, in that order, so the new resources are available when you need them.
```

1. Append the following to `modules/auth-servers/customer-portal.tf` in GitHub, then commit your changes.

   ```hcl
   resource "okta_auth_server" "test_server" {
     audiences   = ["api://iatcore.com"]
     description = "Auth Server that handles test apps"
     name        = "Test ‘Server"
     issuer_mode = "ORG_URL"
     status      = "ACTIVE"
   }
   ```

> 2. In your workspace **Overview** page, observe that a new plan runs, changes are applied automatically, and **Resources changed** shows `+1 ~0 -0` to reflect the added resource. The **Latest Run** status is Applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. On your workspace **Overview** page, observe that a new plan runs, changes are applied automatically, and **Resources changed** shows `+1 ~0 -0` to reflect the added resource. The **Latest Run** status is **Applied**.
```

3. Append the following to `modules/auth-servers/customer-portal.tf` in GitHub, then commit your changes.

   ```hcl
   resource "okta_auth_server_scope" "test_scope" {
     auth_server_id = okta_auth_server.test_server.id
     description    = "This allows the test server to view your IATCore account information."
     name           = "iat.account.read"
   }
   ```

> 4. In your workspace **Overview** page, observe that a new plan runs, changes are applied automatically, and **Resources changed** shows `+1 ~0 -0` to reflect the added resource. The **Latest Run** status is Applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. On your workspace **Overview** page, observe that a new plan runs, changes are applied automatically, and **Resources changed** shows `+1 ~0 -0` to reflect the added resource. The **Latest Run** status is **Applied**.
```

5. Append the following to `modules/auth-servers/customer-portal.tf` in GitHub, then commit your changes.

   ```hcl
   resource "okta_auth_server_claim" "test_claim" {
     auth_server_id = okta_auth_server.test_server.id
     name           = "Type"
     value          = "user.userType"
     scopes         = [ okta_auth_server_scope.test_scope.name ]
     claim_type     = "IDENTITY"
   }
   ```

> 6. In your workspace **Overview** page, observe that a new plan runs, changes are applied automatically, and **Resources changed** shows `+1 ~0 -0` to reflect the added resource. The **Latest Run** status is Applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. On your workspace **Overview** page, observe that a new plan runs, changes are applied automatically, and **Resources changed** shows `+1 ~0 -0` to reflect the added resource. The **Latest Run** status is **Applied**.
```
